# News from 2013 #

<div class="news">
  <h2>OpenChange at SambaXp 2013</h2>
  <div class="date">Friday, 5th April 2013</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/samba_logo.png" />

** From May 14th to 17th, 2013 **, OpenChange will participate to the
samba eXPerience conference in GÃ¶ttingen (Germany). Julien Kerihuel
will present a talk entitled OpenChange 2.0 Ecosystem.

With OpenChange 2.0, small and medium businesses targetting complete
interoperability with Microsoft Exchange server have started to
evaluate and use OpenChange server and Samba4 AD in production. This
talk will provide an overview of OpenChange latest features, pro and
cons, current projects, collaboration and opportunities happening in
OpenChange ecosystem. The last part of the presentation will focus on
the 3.0 milestone and its potential benefits for final users and
service providers.  </div>

<div class="news">
  <h2>OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT Released!</h2>
  <div class="date">Thursday, 28th January 2013</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/openchange_logo_v2.png" />

**The OpenChange project team is proud to announce the release of
OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT**.  <br/><br/> This major release provides
Outlook Anywhere support for OpenChange server, formely known as RPC
over HTTP. This service allows clients using Microsoft Outlook to
connect to their Exchange servers from outside the corporate network.
<br/><br/> [See the release notes for more info
&raquo;](/developers/relnotes/2.0-quadrant.html)

</div>

<div class="news">
  <h2>Easing OpenChange documentation contributions</h2>
  <div class="date">Thursday, 4th January 2013</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/openchange_logo_v2.png" />

Along with the explicit Creative Commons Attributation-ShareAlike 3.0
Unported License applied to the website, we have also decided to make
its source files available to the public and make our contributors
life easier.<br/><br/> The Sources of each page of the website are now
accessible through the *View the source of this file* link at the
bottom right of each page.

</div>