# Welcome to OpenChange #

<div style="float: right; width: 35%;margin-left:2em;">
  <h2 style="margin-bottom: 1em;"> Quick Links </h2>

  <div class="rebox" style="float: left; width: 90%; margin: 0em; margin-bottom: 1em;">
    <h2 style="color: white; background-color: #95C0D0; border: 0px;">OpenChange Social Media</h2>
    <table width="100%" style="border:none;" align="center">
      <tr style="border:none;">
        <td style="border:none;" width="33%"><div id="fb-root"></div><script>(function(d, s, id) {var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) return;js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/fr_FR/all.js#xfbml=1&appId=171342346240430";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script><div class="fb-follow" data-href="http://www.facebook.com/OpenChange" data-colorscheme="light" data-layout="button" data-show-faces="true"></div>
        </td>
        <td style="border:none;" width="33%"><a href="https://twitter.com/OpenChangeProj" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="false">Follow @OpenChangeProj</a>
<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script', 'twitter-wjs');</script>
        </td>
        <td style="border:none;" width="33%"><script src="//platform.linkedin.com/in.js" type="text/javascript">lang: en_US</script><script type="IN/FollowCompany" data-id="5068283" data-counter="none"></script>
        </td>
      </tr>
  </table>
  </div>
  <div class="rebox" style="float: left; width: 90%; margin: 0em;"> 
    <h2 style="color: white; background-color: #95C0D0; border: 0px;">Download OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT</h2>
    <div class="p" style="margin-left: 5px; margin-right: 5px"> 
      <p><img src="images/openchanGe.png" alt="" style="margin: 1em; margin-bottom: 2em; padding-right: 8px;"/>
      OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT is the latest release available for download. Download packages for your Linux distributions, sources and GPG signature: </p>
      <ul>
      <li><a href="/download/index.html">OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT platform packages for Linux hosts</a>
      <li><a href="http://tracker.openchange.org/attachments/download/220/openchange-2.0-QUADRANT.tar.gz">OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT (gzipped) &raquo;</a></li>
      <li><a href="http://tracker.openchange.org/attachments/download/221/openchange-2.0-QUADRANT.tar.asc">GPG Signature &raquo;</a></li>
      </ul></p> 
    </div> 
  </div> 
</div>

OpenChange is a portable Open Source implementation of Microsoft
Exchange server and Exchange protocols. It provides a complete
solution to interoperate with Microsoft Outlook clients or Microsoft
Exchange servers. 

OpenChange client-side library is used in existing messaging clients
and is the solution in new projects to communicate natively with
Microsoft Exchange and Exchange-compatible servers. OpenChange server
is a transparent Microsoft Exchange server replacement using native
Exchange protocols and does not require any plugin installation in
Outlook.

OpenChange is a member project of the [Software Freedom Conservancy](http://sfconservancy.org).

[Learn more »](about/index.html)

<p>&nbsp;</p>

# Latest News #

<div class="news">
<h2>Zentyal OpenChange Webmail</h2>
<div class="date">Thursday 20th February 2014</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/zentyal_logo.png" />

Zentyal Server development is strongly focused on providing a native
replacement for both Microsoft® Active Directory and Microsoft®
Exchange Server. The continuous integration of OpenChange in its
product along with its regular contributions to the project have lead
to major improvements in the area of webmail and usability.

This fully new webmail user interface (UI) (based on the SOGo webmail)
will be included in the Zentyal Server 3.4 version that will be
released on March 15 and is available for beta testing as of
today. For additional information and preview, check out this Zentyal
Labs article that highlights the main changes and includes several
screenshots.

You can read the Zentyal Labs article at the following address:
[http://labs.zentyal.org/zentyal-webmail-restyle/](http://labs.zentyal.org/zentyal-webmail-restyle/).


</div>

<div class="news">
<h2>Follow us, Like us, Tweet us and spread the word</h2>
<div class="date">Saturday, 15th February 2014</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/openchange_logo_v2.png" />

OpenChange is now on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/OpenChange),
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/OpenchangeProj),
[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/company/openchange/) and have a lot
of news and updates to share with you among next weeks. It is time to
update your bookmarks.
<br/><br/>
**Follow us, Like us, Tweet us and spread the word!**
<br/><br/>
    <table style="border:none;" align="center">
      <tr style="border:none;">
        <td style="border:none;"><div id="fb-root"></div><script>(function(d, s, id) {var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) return;js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/fr_FR/all.js#xfbml=1&appId=171342346240430";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));</script><div class="fb-follow" data-href="http://www.facebook.com/OpenChange" data-colorscheme="light" data-layout="button" data-show-faces="true"></div>
        </td>
        <td style="border:none;"><a href="https://twitter.com/OpenChangeProj" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="false">Follow @OpenChangeProj</a>
<script>!function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script', 'twitter-wjs');</script>
        </td>
        <td style="border:none;"><script src="//platform.linkedin.com/in.js" type="text/javascript">lang: en_US</script><script type="IN/FollowCompany" data-id="5068283" data-counter="none"></script>
        </td>
      </tr>
  </table>
</div>

<div class="news">
  <h2>Deploy OpenChange in 3 minutes - Learn how at the Zentyal Summit 2013</h2>
  <div class="date">Tuesday, 1st October 2013</div>

<img border="0" width="96" height="96" style="border: 0pt none;
margin: -5px 5px 5px; float: left;" alt=""
src="/images/zentyal_logo.png" />

OpenChange has been integrated in the [Zentyal Linux small business
server](http://www.zentyal.org)</a> project, making it possible to
carry out an OpenChange deployment through Zentyal Server's graphical
user interface in only 3 minutes. The first technology preview of this
integration will be discussed and showcased at the [Zentyal Summit
2013](http://summit.zentyal.com), that is to be held in Zaragoza
(Spain) on the 3rd and 4th of October.

<br/>
During the event, Julien Kerihuel (CTO of Zentyal and Lead developer
of OpenChange) will deliver a technical overview of the integration as
well as a technical workshop of the OpenChange project. Moreover,
Ignacio Correas (CEO of Zentyal) will discuss the commercial
opportunities Zentyal-OpenChange integration offers. The first
technology preview, that will be available for download since the 3rd
of October, is also made available for testing in the demo space of
the event. Check out the [program](http://summit.zentyal.com/program/)
for further details.

The Zentyal Summit 2013, held under the slogan "Keep Calm and Go
Hybrid", will focus specially on how to seamlessly replace Microsoft
Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange based solutions and what
alternatives allow SMBs to keep their local IT infrastructure, while
adapting cloud-solutions according to their needs. The event is aimed
at current and potential Zentyal partners, customers, community
members and Zentyal Server users. There is no registration fee and the
event will be transmitted on-line, but
[registration](http://summit.zentyal.com/register/) is compulsory.

</div>

[News archives &raquo;](/about/news_2013.html)

